---
layout: post
title: "Robotics Competition"
date: 2025-10-09
description: "Engineering Physics 2022 Robotics competition"
image: "/assets/sudoku.png"
---

### Overview

Every summer, 2nd year Engineering Physics students are split into 16 teams that compete to win a robotics competition. For six weeks, we do nothing but robotics. My team of four was able to win the competition, and it will forever be one of the most memorable moments in my university degree.

Our year, we were challenged to pick up six idols in an obstacle course. Here is the graphic of the obstacle course for our year:



The first section of course has a line of black tape which can be followed with a reflection sensor. There is then a short section of chicken wire, following by a 30x30cm archway that the robot must fit through. The first two idols are here. 

After this section, the tape disappears. Two infrared beacons at different frequencies are situated in this section. (The idea is that you filter out one of them and go in the direction of the other one). On each side of the central section, there are areas filled with rocks. An idol is placed on each side.

To get to the third section, you have to ride the zipline (a horizontal metal bar). In the third section, two circular platforms are connected by a bridge. There are two idols here as well. Finally, there is a second zipline that can be rode to the end area. 

To gain points, we must collect idols  - there are 5 silver idols and 1 gold idol, plus extra points for reaching the end. Lastly, one of the idols is a "bomb" - if you pick it up, you explode. It is identified by a magnet placed inside. 

We were the only team to get a perfect score, and one of only 3 teams to make it to the final section.

### Design

Our team's strategy rested making a really simple, flexible chasis, and getting a working robot as quickly as possible. That way, we were able to begin testing far earlier than the other teams. There were many ups and downs over the six weeks, but here's an overview.

Our robot had 6 types of sensors
- Reflectance sensors for the tape
- Sonar to detect the idols
- Hall affect sensors to detect the "bomb"
- Infrared sensors with a filtering circuit for the beacon
- Another set of reflectance sensors to prevent ourselves from falling off the bridge

We also used motors with rotary encoders built in. Encoders tell you the distance travelled by motors, and we used to create precise sequences of movements, especially in the third part of the course where there is no tape or beacons to the guide the robot. 

All the software was on an STM32 "blue pill" microcontroller, written in C++. 